In this video, I'm going to walk you through setting up Python as well as VS Code on a
Windows machine. So the first thing that we're going to do is within your web browser, just
search for Python. And then we're going to select the first result. So this is going to take us to
the main Python page, we want to go to the download section. And so here Python, the website
is going to offer you up whatever the latest version of Python is, in this case, it happens
to be 3.9.6. Keep in mind, if you're watching this video in the future, it's going
to show some other version, that's okay, go ahead and just download the latest version.
As long as it's later than 3.7, you should be okay. So I'm going to just hit
download Python 3.9.6. I'm going to download that once it's finished downloading,
I'm going to select that and it's going to open up the installer. Now with this installer open,
it's very important that you select add Python 3.9 to PATH. Do not forget to do this
or then you're going to run into some issues. So make sure that's selected and then hit install.
Now, if you go through the installation process, and you realize you forgot to do this,
technically, there's a way to fix it afterwards. But instead of me explaining how to do that, the best
thing to do is just uninstall Python and reinstall it. So we'll hit install. Now, you'll get a pop
up, just go ahead and hit yes. Alright, and once you see this message where it says setup was
successful, that means Python was installed. And the next thing that we want to do is just quickly
verify that Python's up and running and working. So what we're gonna do is we're just going to
search for CMD. So it's going to open up our command prompt or terminal. And then in here,
just type in Python, dash three, dash dash version. Sorry, we should actually type in Python
py dash three, dash dash version. Alright, and so when you type this command in, it's going to tell
us the specific version that we installed. So we can see that I successfully installed Python
three dot nine dot six, if you get any kind of error, or any message saying that this command
is not available, that means that Python wasn't installed successfully. So just go ahead and redo
that process just in case. Now, the next thing that we want to do is install VS Code. So let's
open up a new tab, just search for VS Code. And then we'll select this is going to take us to
this page. And you'll see that VS Code will automatically detect what version you're running.
So you can just like download for Windows. And then once it's finished downloading,
go ahead and open it up. Hit the accept agreement, hit next, next, next. And then
you can leave everything as default. And then go ahead and run the installer. All right,
and then go ahead and finish, it's going to automatically open up VS Code.
Now there's a couple of things I want to do. So VS Code at its core is just a basic text editor.
However, we can install extensions that give it extra functionality, extra features that
will make it operate a little bit more like a full-blown IDE. So go ahead and select this icon
right here. This is for extensions. And then what we want to do is we want to search for Python.
And we usually just want to select the first one, it'll have a star and it's gonna be the one made
by Microsoft, you'll see that there's other ones made by other users, but we want the main
Microsoft one, hit install. And so this extension is going to give us IntelliSense, linting, debugging
and a few other features that are going to make it a little bit easier to start working with Python
within VS Code. All right. And so now that it's done installing, we can just close this,
close this, and then select this one to get back to your main file browser.
And right now, we haven't opened up any folder. So what we want to do is we want to create a folder to store all
of our application code. So select open folder, and then figure out where you want to store your
application code. So I'm just gonna store this in my documents, you can store this wherever you want,
I'm gonna create a new file or a new folder, I'm just gonna call it FastAPI. But you can name your
project whatever you want. So just select folder. And so that's going to not only create not only
create the folder, but it's going to open it up within VS Code. If you get this error, just like
trust the author, and just like yes. And then we can close out this welcome menu. And so now what
we have is we've opened up whoops, we've opened up VS Code. And within VS Code, we've opened up our
project code. So right now, there's no code that's to be expected. But I want to I want to do is I
want to create a new file real quick just for testing purposes. So I'm just going to right
click hit new file, and I'm going to name it main.py. And so we want to name it .py,
because this is going to be a Python file. And before I hit enter, I want you to focus your eyes
right down here. And you'll notice something happens down there. So when I hit enter, you'll
see activating extension. So it's activating the Python extension. And what the Python extension
is going to do is it's automatically going to select the correct Python interpreter, or it may
not be correct depending on what happens on your machine. For me, it automatically detected
Python 3.9.6 was installed on the machine. So it selected that one for me.
Keep in mind, if you have multiple versions of Python installed, it may select the wrong interpreter. So what you
can do is if you ever want to change the interpreter or specify a specific interpreter,
go to view command palette. And what I want you to do is search for Python
interpreter, and then look for Python: Select Interpreter. So right now, it's going to highlight
where the current Python interpreter is, which one is selected, and what's the executable for it.
But if you want to change that you can select enter interpreter path and then provide the path
to the specific version that you want. So you can always change it. But usually it's able to
detect the latest version. So you should be good to go. And so that's all I wanted to do from a
setup perspective. There's one more thing that we'll cover later. But we'll get to that in the
next section. But right now we've got Python installed, and we've got VS Code set up. And
we've got our project directory set up so we should be good to go.